Post: Turning AI agents into doctors for your project's health (#9888)
tuist/tuist: server/priv/marketing/blog/2026/03/18/doctor.md

All the knowledge David had acquired about the underlying tools was locked in his head, not shared across the organization. So even after introducing a tool to help with the Gradle side of things, most people didn't bother going deep to understand it. On one side, he became an indispensable piece in the org. On the other, putting down fires was not something he would enjoy doing for the long run.

But this week was different. It was quiet. He arrived early to the office, left his remaining coffee on the table, turned on the computer, and with a few commands, he had Xcode and Gradle data and blobs flowing to and from Tuist. The interface was more polished than his previous tool, but he felt nothing would really change. That feeling lasted just a few minutes, until he tried something that would change his team's culture entirely.

![Illustration of a developer overwhelmed by build and performance questions while staring at a computer showing a build in progress.](/marketing/images/blog/2026/03/18/mcp/david.jpg)

## Every platform team has a doctor problem

> David's story is not unique. Developers becoming doctors of their product teams' projects, tools, and generated artifacts is extremely common. In fact, we at Tuist were starting to become doctors of our own customers' data. They would come to us asking for solutions to problems that were not directly related to Tuist itself. Helping them felt like the right thing to do, but we soon realized we needed a different approach if we wanted to scale that kind of support. They say that if you listen to and observe your customers closely enough, you can learn a lot about what they need. Turns out we had the best example right in front of us. We just had to connect the dots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
David's story is not unique. Developers becoming doctors of their product teams' projects, tools, and generated artifacts is extremely common. In fact, we at Tuist were starting to become doctors of our own users' data. They would come to us asking for solutions to problems that were not directly related to Tuist itself. Helping them felt like the right thing to do, but we soon realized we needed a different approach if we wanted to scale that kind of support. They say that if you listen to and observe your users closely enough, you can learn a lot about what they need. Turns out we had the best example right in front of us. We just had to connect the dots.
```

In general, I'd prefer framing users > customers. Some users may be customers, but not necessarily so.
